About This Project
===========

WhichMethod is a research study of <a href="http://www.healthsolutions.org" target="_blank">Public Health Solutions</a> in New York City.

The decision-making process of choosing a contraceptive method is complex, particularly for young women and women with low educational attainment. This intervention addresses this decision-making gap, by helping women of all literacy levels engage in the process of choosing a contraceptive method, thus reducing their risk of unintended pregnancy.

There are two key components to this decision-making module, including:

	1. Interactive Contraceptive Assessment; and 
	2. Tailored Feedback. 

The Interactive Contraceptive Assessment module is available in both Spanish and English and includes approximately 50 questions on sexual risk factors, contraceptive history, preferences and priorities, and medical history. Responses to the module questions guide an underlying algorithm that makes more than 500 ranking decisions for 19 different contraceptive methods. Users receive individually-tailored feedback about contraceptive methods that best fit given responses.

Core Functionality
===========
By being programmed into a responsive website platform, the module is more likely to reach our target population. Core functionality of this module include:

	Make use of single sign-on so that the user could start, stop and restart using the app in any location and save the answers to the questions and the user’s tailored method recommendations, without having to register separately.

	Link young women who are unconnected to health care with family planning services at the collaborating clinical partners in the community.

	Allow users to save and share the method recommendations generated by the module.

	Enable follow-up with the user about method choice, which will both serve as user reminders to link with care and facilitate project evaluation.





